around 60 trucks carrying relief
supplies have arrived in the north of
the Gaza Strip where Israel's military
has focused its actions against Hamas
it's the largest delivery there since
the War Began and represents around a
third of the number of a trucks that had
entered the Gaza Strip by Saturday night
they began crossing the Rafa boarding
checkpoint with Egypt after the truce
took effect the UN says it needs to be
able to distribute Aid throughout the
territory
Israel released the second group of
Palestinian prisoners Saturday the
second of four groups under its
agreement with Hamas the detainees were
handed to the international Committee of
the Red Cross at the ofer jail amid
heavy Israeli police
presence welcomed with celebrations the
second group of Palestinian prisoners
released by Israel among them Six Women
and 33 teenagers many still in
disbelief I couldn't believe what
happened I'd been sentenced to three
years in prison and I had 2 and a half
years left until my release date
suddenly a guard came and told me that
he would Release
Me among the crowd clear signs of
support for the militant group Hamas
designated as a terrorist group by the
EU the Us and other countries and the
group responsible for the October 7th
Terror attacks on
Israel among the released prisoners is
isra jabis arrested in 2015 she was
accused of exploding her car at an
Israeli military checkpoint in the West
Bank the incident left her disfigured
and an Israeli police officer seriously
injured Israeli authorities called it an
act of terrorism she claimed it was an
accident The Prisoner releases are part
of a 4-day truce between Hamas and
Israel under which Hamas is freeing
Israelis seized during the October 7th
attacks journalist hen baloa was in Gaza
until recently he joins us now from the
Jordanian Capital Aman ham we just saw
in that report Palestinians released
from Israeli prisons being received by
crowds waving Hamas Flags you've covered
the West Bank for years how much support
does Hamas have
there well it's not easy to measure this
uh how popular Hamas in the West Bank or
even in Gaza because the the last
election took place in the Palestinian
territories was in in in early 2006 when
Hamas won the election or the majority
of the seats in the parliament but
apparently due to the lack of um of a
bath of these process that led by
Palestinian Authority or president
Mahmud abas and the failure of achieving
the Palestinian goals and and and as the
Palestinians believe that they want to
be achieved to be have a Palestinian
State and and um in in on the six within
67 borders um the the popularity of
Hamas is increasing there is a split
among the Palestinians whether in Gaza
or in West Bank actually um whether to
support the the path of the peace
process or what they call it their
resistance um U to to to achieve the
Palestinian goals still I wonder is this
prisoner for hostages swap seen as a
victory for Hamas in the Palestinian
territories in fact um there is a split
in the Palestinian Community whether in
Gaza or in the West Bank or even um
abroad some people would say that this
is like the the release of the prisoners
is a is a a Nole issue and we we
Palestinians should um sacrifice for it
and they have to achieve it um no matter
what the price is but um still some
others especially in Gaza then there are
many voices raised whether in um in the
public in the street or some people
brought it uh publicly out on um social
media platforms that they are
criticizing Hamas this is not worth it
the the loss is and the price is very
high in the West Bank it could be
different a little bit but there is a
more more gain of popularity among the
Palestinians there as you know of course
tensions have been heightened in the
West Bank since the Hamas attacks on
Israel in the last 24 hours we've seen
violence flaring in Janine how is the
war in Gaza impacting the lives of
Palestinians in the West
Bank uh it's not easy as well here here
to say it's vice versa it happens I mean
what happens in the West Bank sometimes
affects Gaza and the vice versa what
happens in Gaza uh has an an impact on
the West Bank but apparently what
happens in chenine now is uh separated
of what happened in in Gaza or um uh
going on regarding the war um it's not a
new thing that the the attacks on um on
Janine or the militants there um many
many in many raids took place in napos
or Janine or other places um in in what
happens in Gaza that of course that
increased the the anger among the
Palestinians sometimes it's not easy for
them to to move Hamas actually is trying
to push the Palestinians in the West
Bank to act and to go out to the streets
to protest to confront the Israeli
troops along the the West Bank but um um
we can't say that this is what happen in
Janine is particularly because of of the
war in G got it I we'll have to end it
there journalist ham belala in am on
many many
thanks